Hello friends, welcome to Tippon sites.
In today's video we will talk
about ICICI Lombard. How is the
process of cashless claim done in ICICI Lombard?
In today's video I am going to
tell you in detail that whenever
we purchase a new health insurance policy,
many questions come to our mind as to
how can we take the claim, that is, in
what type can we use our health card,
do
we need any document while getting treatment
or in what condition can we use our health
card for getting our treatment done?
Many such questions
remain in your mind, so in today's video I am going to
answer all these questions through this video, so
you guys stay till the end of the video. If you are
new to the channel, then subscribe to the channel and
press the bell icon so that you keep getting notifications of new videos. So
let's
start the video
[Music]
Whenever we purchase a health insurance policy of ICICI Lombard, that
policy is of two types,
one is individual policy  There is a
corporate policy. Individual policy
means that policy which we
purchase on our own will, whose limit we
decide on our own will, we select our plan on
our own will, that is, the
policy which we like, the plan which
we like and the premium which we
like, the policy which
we purchase according to that is called individual policy
and corporate policy,
if we are working in a private organization
and that organization has provided us a health
insurance policy
of ICICI Lombard, then it is called corporate
policy or it is also called group policy,
so there are two types of policies, the thing which we have to keep in
mind is that the
terms and conditions of both, the conditions
of use or what you can call its guidelines,
are different for both, like in
individual policy there is a
waiting period of one month for using it, that is,
when you have purchased the policy,
you cannot use it for
one month, you can use it after one month is completed,
but in
corporate policy  It's not like that in
corporate. What happens is that once
we get the health insurance policy
documents, we can
use it from day one.
Secondly, what happens in an individual policy is that
surgery is covered after 2 years,
some other illness is covered after 3 years, and
some other illness is covered after 4 years. So, there are
waiting periods for covering these illnesses as well. That is, the
waiting periods in individual policies are
a bit longer,
but in corporate policies,
most of the illnesses are
covered from the very beginning. So, how will you know these things?
For that, you have to
read the terms and conditions of your policy.
Everything is written in detail in it.
Along with this, you should also know
what is the limit of your health insurance policy, whether it is an individual policy
or a corporate policy. So, these
things are to be kept in mind. In the next video, I am going to
tell you how
you
can take a cashless claim from your policy under ICICI Lombard.  A cashless
claim means receiving free treatment without paying any money to the
hospital. This
means
you won't need to pay any cash, and your treatment will be completely
free under your health insurance
policy. For this, it's
crucial for you to know three things:
first, you should know which hospitals will be eligible for your
health card, or your
ICICI Lombard policy.
This means it's
crucial to know the network hospitals, meaning how to find out about hospitals
affiliated with ICICI Lombard.
You
can either check the ICICI
Lombard website or I've
made a specific video about
how you
can find a network hospital near you with ICICI Lombard.
You can easily find a network hospital by watching it.
Once you've found a network hospital, you'll need to go
to the hospital. First, you'll need to
see a doctor in the OPD, where the
doctor will examine you. If the doctor
determines that the patient is experiencing significant discomfort, they'll need to be seen.
They will advise you that you need to be admitted,
meaning you
can only get treatment through an inpatient setting; you cannot get treatment on an OPD basis.
You should
also know that health
insurance policies are
valid only for inpatient cases. Some people are
also taking OPD-related plans these days. An OPD-
related plan means that if the doctor does
not admit you and
sends you home after prescribing some medicines or lab tests,
you can claim that too. However, for that,
you must have an OPD-related plan.
If you do not have an OPD plan,
you will
not be able to claim your OPD bill. However, the
rate of this is very low. Very few people
take OPD plans. Most people
take only inpatient plans.
Many others are
not even aware whether their card will be valid in OPD
or inpatient cases. When they
need it or face a medical emergency
and go to the hospital, they
realize that it is only inpatient cases.
So I want to tell you
that this health card of yours,
ICICI Lombard, can be used only in case of admission.
If the doctor advises you
that you are suffering a lot and you need to be
admitted, then you have to first
find a network hospital and then visit the OPD.
In the OPD, the doctor will advise that you
need to be admitted. When you get
admitted in the hospital, then there is
a TPA team inside the hospital.
That TPA team is a team of the hospital. Just
like there is a reception, there is
a TPA desk there.
You have to go there to get your
policy documents checked and
verified and find out whether
my health card is applicable in your hospital
or not, that is, whether
I will get a cashless claim from it here or not. The
TP team
verifies your documents and after that
they ask for ID from you, the patient's
PAN card and Aadhar card along with
any previous documents of the patient i.e.
any old treatment document.  Related to this,
you have to give that also to the TPA, if you do
not have it then it is not compulsory, not all
patients have any previous documents,
so those who do not have them
need not worry, mainly there are only two
documents, one is the policy
document i.e. your health
card, second would be your ID, PAN
card and Aadhar card, both these documents are
very important, after that the TPA team gets you to
sign the pre-authorization form, after
filling that form they send it to the insurance
company i.e. ICICI Lombard,
details related to the treatment are filled in it, an
estimated amount is filled in that form, that brother, if the
patient will stay for three days or four days then this much
expense will be incurred, so they fill that amount and
send it, after that the insurance company
reviews your claim, if they feel that the
patient is suffering and
needs to be admitted then they approve your claim i.e. they
give initial approval, initial
approval is the initial approval that
comes.  Initial approval is called.
If your estimate is sent for ₹50,000 and
₹200,0000 has been passed from there, then you
need not worry because
when your treatment is complete, the
hospital
prepares a final bill for all the expenses incurred from the first day till the last day.
Along with this, your discharge summary is prepared in
which the details related to the treatment are
filled and written. After that, your
final bill, discharge summary and all the supporting
documents are sent
for final approval, that is, again
to ICICI Lombard for approval. At the
time of discharge, the insurance company
again reviews your claim and
checks whether the billing done by you
or the expenses mentioned in your bill are correct
or wrong. After verifying them, they
give approval. If they
find any problem or need any additional documents,
they can also raise a query and
you will get the answer to it one or two times.  It has to be paid
within an hour. When your claim
is reviewed and passed, there
may be some deductions in it. There can be
two types of deductions. One will be for
non-payables, that is, if
you have used some non-payable items during the treatment, that is, if they have been provided by the
hospital, then
you may have to face deduction in that. The
second deduction is for
payment. Payment means
that the policy holder has to pay some percentage of the total bill at the
time of discharge. The
hospital has two types
of detections. In case of over-billing, there is a
remark in it that the
hospital has charged wrongly, so you do
not have to pay. So, you have to
see and read that detection. If you are
not satisfied with it, then you
can also contact ICICI Loard or you can also contact the place from where
you purchased your health insurance policy and
get help. The
TP team inside the hospital will
guide you well and you can also get help from them.  If you
can, then in today's video I told you
how the cashless claim process is done in ICICI Lombard, what
documents do you
need, how the
cashless claim process is done in ICICI Lombard,
you must have understood, still if
you have any question in your mind regarding this video, then
you can ask me by writing in the comment section,
apart from this, if you have
any query in your health insurance claim, you can definitely
ask me questions related to that, you will definitely get answers to all the questions
in a limited time, share this video as much as possible with all the
policy holders of ICICI Lombard
who have purchased the policy or
who have the policy for a long time, so that
many people can
get benefit from it, if you like the video then
like the video, subscribe to the channel,
press the bell icon
so that you keep getting notifications of new videos, so that this is all for
today's video, till then,
hello in the next video